docs/content/reference/branch-deployments.mdx, before:

---
title: Branch deployments
description: Reliably ship code using IssueOps in PRs
status: Alpha
---

export { Layout as default } from '@issue-ops/gatsby-theme-doctocat-typescript'

One interesting topic to include when talking about IssueOps is branch
deployments. High-level, branch deployments let you run and control deployments
from your PRs.

If you don't already know what they are, the easiest way to explain them is to
compare them to the traditional merge deploy model. In the merge deploy model:

A developer creates a feature branch and commits changes.

The developer opens a PR to get feedback from others.

Once approved, the PR is merged and a deployment starts from the main branch.

This works fine, but if there are bugs in the PR, you have to either merge in
fixes or revert the commits and redeploy. In the branch deploy model, changes
are deployed from the feature branch and validated before being merged into the
main branch. This ensures that whatever is in main can be deployed at any time.
If there is a problem with the deployment from the feature branch, you can
simply redeploy main as-is.

Commit message:

Clean up initial branch-deploy docs

docs/content/reference/branch-deployments.mdx, after:

---
title: Branch deployments
description: Reliably ship code using IssueOps in PRs
status: Alpha
---

export { Layout as default } from '@issue-ops/gatsby-theme-doctocat-typescript'

One interesting topic to include when talking about IssueOps is branch
deployments. At a high-level, branch deployments let you run and control
deployments from your PRs.

If you don't already know what they are, the easiest way to explain them is to
compare them to the traditional merge deploy model. In the merge deploy model:

1. A developer creates a feature branch and commits changes.
1. The developer opens a PR to get feedback from others.
1. Once approved, the PR is merged and a deployment starts from the `main`
   branch.

This works fine, but if there are bugs in the PR, you have to either merge in
fixes or revert the commits and redeploy. In the branch deploy model, changes
are deployed from the feature branch and validated before being merged into the
`main` branch. This ensures that whatever is in `main` can be deployed at any
time. If there is a problem with the deployment from the feature branch, you can
simply redeploy `main` as-is.

For a detailed description of the branch-deploy model, see
[`github/branch-deploy`](https://github.com/github/branch-deploy).
